# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis.

## Overview
The purpose of the analysis is to determine how many employees are about to retire, in which departments are they, and with what title. Also to find out current employees who can participate in mentorship programm. In order to get ready for "silver tsunami" and prepare enough personnel to replace retired employees.

## Results
- First table shows every employee with their titles current and previous who will retire soon. [retirement_titles.png](https://github.com/andgerashchenko/Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis./blob/93debd2d7d1efaf2ee6aacc30ca7a5c87ea3432c/Resources/retirement_titles.png)  
- The table above has duplicates, because it shows all titles during whole period of employee's work. The table Unique_titles has only current title, which helps to determine what exact positions will be vacated [unique_titles.png](https://github.com/andgerashchenko/Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis./blob/93debd2d7d1efaf2ee6aacc30ca7a5c87ea3432c/Resources/unique_titles.png)
- Retiring_titles table gives comprehension of total retiring employees by title overall the company [retiring_titles.png](https://github.com/andgerashchenko/Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis./blob/93debd2d7d1efaf2ee6aacc30ca7a5c87ea3432c/Resources/retiring_titles.png)
- Mentorship_eligibilty table built according to mentorship requirement, which is birth date within 1965 year. It shows employees who can become a mentor for new personnel [mentorship_eligibilty.png](https://github.com/andgerashchenko/Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis./blob/93debd2d7d1efaf2ee6aacc30ca7a5c87ea3432c/Resources/mentorship_eligibilty.png)

##Summary
- In order to mitigate negative effect of "silver tsunami" it is nessesary to prepare enough personnel for substitution retired roles. This proccess won't happen in one day, but will expand for years. Therefore we can split the procces by some periods of time. Lets assume that oldest employees will retire first of all. By nerrowing down age range to (1952-01-01 - 1952-12-31) we got the following table:[retiring_1952.png](https://github.com/andgerashchenko/Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis./blob/72e7b18466e61719a8c42904b8912d94b9ca77fa/Resources/retiring_1952.png) , which show how many roles will need to be filled during the first year of "silver tsunami".
- The idea to use mentors for new employees training may be consistent if there are enough employees matching mentoring requirements. To check this, we've joined existing tables: mentorship_eligibility and retiring_titles by counting total employees from mentorship_eligibility and comparing with total retiring employees. Following result: [ment_ret_compare.png](https://github.com/andgerashchenko/Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis./blob/72e7b18466e61719a8c42904b8912d94b9ca77fa/Resources/ment_ret_compare.png) shows insufficiency of employees ready for mentoring. To cover required needs we can widen mentiring requirements and use external sources for training personnel.
